In this lesson, we'll explore all the page wide controls in the Disney visual builder interface across
the bottom of the page.
You'll see how to navigate the different sections, utilize the edit history, look at the different
screen sizes while building for mobile responsivity and the wireframe view.
By the end of this video, you'll understand the page controls in Divij to be able to navigate while
looking at the design as it looks on the front end to the user.
Now, oftentimes when I'm editing and building sites with DV, I will keep a second tab open with the
live site here and another tab with the dashboard open where I need to do dashboard or appearance customizer
or device settings over here.
And when I want to edit content on the pages, I'll go over here to the live site and I'll use the Enable
Visual Builder button.
And so this then again puts the layer of editing on top of the actual content of the site as it will
look and down here at the bottom.
This purple button, you can open and close this page wide toolbar here, and I just wanted to show
you around this a little bit before we end this lesson and go on to the next one.
But that I showed you the save button over here on the right.
One thing that you have over here on the right as well is a find button, but in the middle is a Layers
tab, and this opens up a little window that shows you the different sections and then how they are
nested within each other and all the way down to the module level for what the different sections are
similar to the WordPress editor when you're looking at the block editor of a page.
The list view and so that's a good place to get around.
If you click one of them, it'll show you, especially if it's not labeled yet, which is something
that will.
I'll show you how to label those in the administrative section anyway, but it's an easy way to find
what you want to work on.
I generally don't open that very much, but it's good to know that it's there across the bottom.
Here in the middle, there are a few different things.
This is a portability button which opens up an exporter and importer so that you can actually export
your whole page layouts into a file.
It's a dot JSOC or a Dot Jason file that you can export and then import into different websites or even
the same website.
You can also import JSON files, and that's this is where you would do that.
If you get JSON files from, say, the Elegant Themes blog, for example, for page layouts.
And we'll be importing JSON files as we used the theme builder to build custom headers and footers and
things like that.
But that's where that exists.
There's also this revisions and editing history section right here with the little clock.
You can go right back to different places that are saved within the divvy builder here and save them
to past instances.
And so it's easy to go back and you won't, you know, you have a very low chance of losing any of your
work, for example, or if you make a mistake and you kind of go down the road and you're like, You
know, I don't like the way that looks, I want to go back four steps.
You can use that to go back in your editing process.
There's the settings, which gives you the page title and just a few other things which I've showed
you before and then to the left of the open and close button here.
There's a way just to clear the layout so you can just start over again from scratch and then save to
the DV library.
This is to save an entire page layout to a place that exists over here under Devi Devi library.
Now, right now, if I open Devi Library, you can see that there's nothing there.
And it looks like just a list of something pages or posts.
These are layouts that don't appear on the front end of the website, but they're saved layouts that
you can save.
And not only can you save complete pages using this down arrow, but you can save things like, you
know, just a single module.
For example, the down arrow here would allow you to save this module and label it to that Devi library.
So if I were to go like this, you know, save this entire page.
This is called the home page.
So this is, you know, agency home just so I know what it is.
You can also categorize them and click Save to Library.
Now, when I go back over to the library and refresh the TV library, now I have that agency home here
in the library.
And you can bring it in to a blank page any time you want to, including.
You can do that with sections and you can do it with row layouts and you can do it with individual modules
and we'll be playing with that.
Later, also, and then finally, this plus this is where you would just load a layout from the library
and so you can actually load from the elegant themes library if you have a page open just like we did
before, and you can look at your saved layouts.
Now this is navigating itself to where I showed you here in the layouts of the Disney library.
And so this layout, this button will only import full layouts like full page layouts that you've saved
in the library.
It won't show you individual sections or row layouts or modules.
You can get those from within the page itself.
And then you can even import or clone existing pages, and then you get to choose whether you want to
replace the existing content or just add to it.
So you can close that right here.
And then finally, the mobile responsive settings over here, these are a good way to look at the site
as you're designing in the visual build there.
For different page types and screen sizes, you can do screen sizes just like I showed you in the last
section in the browser, as well as you can drag it left and right to see you know how the site responds
in terms of different sizes, and you can click these three kind of a standard phone view, a standard
tablet view and then back to the desktop view for whatever size your browser is at the moment.
Then finally, over here is the wireframe view.
And if you're familiar with DV from a quite a while ago, this used to be the only view in DV.
But this gives you a nice way to edit and move around the different sections, and it gives you a great
idea of how they're nested together so that you can see that, OK, Blue is four sections.
Then within that section you have rows and this is a two column layout.
And then within the left column, there are four three text modules and a button.
And on the right hand side, there are no modules, and that's what makes up this layout here.
The top section has a two column layout and there are three text modules and then a button module.
And over here, the background of the section is showing through.
And if you if you open up the gear icon on any of these toolbars, you'll see what the how that background
color or other options are set.
And so there's actually no background here in the section.
The background that we're seeing here is within the row layout.
So within this row layout, I can see that there's two columns.
Let's look at see see if there's a background, OK?
So there's a background color as well as a background image, and you can see this this little kind
of half circle, quarter circle image that's overlaying on top of this background color and that exists
in the entire row.
And so there's also two columns on top of that in the right hand column, I would suspect that it has
a background image, and there it is.
And that's how that's built.
You can take apart these pre-designed layouts and divvy to learn how they're created so that you can
use that knowledge in your design process in the future as you either modify layouts that you import
or create your own from scratch.
One of the greatest things about the layout library from Devi and elegant themes is that all of these
graphics and images and everything that icons everything that you can possibly import on any of the
layouts is commercially available for you to modify and use as much as you want.
I mean, there's no attribution needed.
There's a lot of stock photography and awesome graphics that you can find throughout all the available
layouts.
And when you hit Exit Visual Builder over here, then it'll ask you if you want to save your changes
or not or discard an exit.
And before we do that, just one last thing over here on the side in this gray toolbar, this is these
are some settings for the builder itself.
And if you change any of these, they'll be persistent throughout your site for future edits that you're
making on different pages.
And so there are different settings for what you want to have in the toolbar.
And, you know, for example, the page creation flow when you create a page.
Remember, I showed you those three options you could clone a page, you could bring in a pre-made layout
or you can start from scratch.
And that's give me a choice.
But you can have it.
Just choose one to save yourself a step.
If you always use one of these, you can just change that there.
So those are your.
Builder wide and site wide builder settings right here again, once you make those changes, don't forget
that even after hitting this green checkbox on a module or a section or row, you still need to go over
and click Save here on the right hand side.
And if it's not open yet, you definitely need to open this and click Save.
If you fail to do that and you click Exit Visual Builder or navigate away from the page, then what
it'll do is bring up this unsaved changes warning and so you can say save and exit.
For now, I'll just hit, discard and exit, and then it opens the live page.
And that's what I mean by designing here on the live site.
I'll set up all these pages with a navigation, so then I can go through and I can open each of the
pages as a live page.
I can look at it and then say, OK, I'm ready to edit this.
I click Enable Visual Builder.